Título de la noticia: SEC drops charges against Ripple executives
Contenido de la noticia: A web3 membership designed to empower you with cutting-edge insights and knowledge. Learn more ›
Welcome! 👋 You are connected to CryptoSlate Alpha. To manage your wallet connection, click the button below.
If you don't have enough, buy ACS on the following exchanges:
Access Protocol is a web3 monetization paywall. When users stake ACS, they can access paywalled content. Learn more ›
Disclaimer: By choosing to lock your ACS tokens with CryptoSlate, you accept and recognize that you will be bound by the terms and conditions of your third-party digital wallet provider, as well as any applicable terms and conditions of the Access Foundation. CryptoSlate shall have no responsibility or liability with regard to the provision, access, use, locking, security, integrity, value, or legal status of your ACS Tokens or your digital wallet, including any losses associated with your ACS tokens. It is solely your responsibility to assume the risks associated with locking your ACS tokens with CryptoSlate. For more information, visit our terms page.
The global crypto market cap is $1.13 trillion with a 24-hour volume of $48.49 billion. The price of Bitcoin is $29,771.46 and BTC market dominance is 51.6%. The price of Ethereum is $1,612.24 and ETH market dominance is 17.3%. The best performing cryptoasset sector is Insurance, which gained 13%.
Ripple's Brad Garlinghouse and Chris Larsen no longer face charges. However, Ripple and the SEC must settle on remedies for institutional XRP sale violations.
Cover art/illustration via CryptoSlate
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) agreed to drop charges against two top Ripple executives, according to an Oct. 19 press release.
The SEC previously charged Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse and co-founder and executive chair Chris Larsen with aiding and abetting Ripple’s institutional sales of XRP.
Garlinghouse said in a statement:
“For nearly three years, Chris and I have been the subject of baseless allegations from a rogue regulator… instead of looking for the criminals stealing customer funds on offshore exchanges, the SEC went after the good guys – along with our entire company of innovators and entrepreneurs.”
Larsen, meanwhile, called the case an “abuse by the administrative state” and an “attempt to ruin us personally” while also destroying the company itself.
The SEC did not comment publicly but expressed its decision in an Oct. 19 court filing. In one document, the SEC wrote that its claims are now “dismissed in their entirety, without prejudice and without costs or fees to either party.”
In another document, the agency said that its stipulated and voluntary dismissal removes the need for a trial that would otherwise have taken place in April.
The dismissal does not fully conclude the SEC’s case against Ripple, which concerns the actions of Ripple as a corporation — not just the actions of its individual members.
Ripple obtained partial victory around July 13 when a judge ruled that the firm’s programmatic sales of XRP and certain other distributions did not violate securities laws. Ripple itself affirmed this victory on July 19 and explained that on-exchange sales of XRP, sales of XRP by executives, and transactions involving XRP are not securities.
Starting in August, the SEC made an attempt to appeal against Ripple’s initial win concerning its programmatic sales of XRP.  However, in October, the judge ultimately rejected the SEC’s appeal request on Oct. 3, drawing that part of the case to a close.
The judge’s original ruling nevertheless ruled that Ripple’s sales to institutional investors constituted securities. Ripple and the SEC must still determine the appropriate remedies for violations related to those institutional sales, according to the latest filing.
Before transitioning to crypto writing in 2018, Mike studied library and information sciences. Currently, he resides on Canada's West Coast.
Jacob Oliver is a recovering academic and English teacher who went down the crypto rabbit hole in 2017 after recognizing the technology's potential.
Disclaimer: Our writers' opinions are solely their own and do not reflect the opinion of CryptoSlate. None of the information you read on CryptoSlate should be taken as investment advice, nor does CryptoSlate endorse any project that may be mentioned or linked to in this article. Buying and trading cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk activity. Please do your own due diligence before taking any action related to content within this article. Finally, CryptoSlate takes no responsibility should you lose money trading cryptocurrencies.
The XRP Ledger is a decentralized cryptographic ledger powered by a network of peer-to-peer servers.
Brad Garlinghouse, CEO of fintech firm Ripple, which develops XRP financial products, previously led file-sharing site Hightail and served as President of Consumer Apps at AOL and SVP of Yahoo!’s Communications division.
Chris Larsen is Executive Chairman of Ripple’s board of directors and former CEO and co-founder of Ripple.
Ripple is a US-based technology company which develops the Ripple payment protocol and exchange network using XRP, the digital asset native to the XRP Ledger.
Ripple's Brad Garlinghouse and Chris Larsen no longer face charges. However, Ripple and the SEC must settle on remedies for institutional XRP sale violations.
A more conservative estimate by Matrixport projects that the top cryptocurrency's value could rise to $42,000.
Grayscale has worked for years to gain SEC approval for a U.S. spot Bitcoin ETF. It may finally be on the cusp of victory.
The once-revered FTX founder won admiration and trust of countless peers with a facade of virtue signaling and projected altruism before the illusion was shattered.
Unverified rumors of BlackRock's Bitcoin ETF approval generate market volatility while SEC postpones final verdict.
The main witnesses for the day were Professor Peter Easton, an esteemed accounting expert from the University of Notre Dame, FBI accountant Paige Owens, and a former FTX employee, Eliora Katz.
Tech giants may be forced to disclose when customers rent large amounts of power if the order materializes.
The once-revered FTX founder won admiration and trust of countless peers with a facade of virtue signaling and projected altruism before the illusion was shattered.
The move aims to bolster consumer protections in a market plagued by recent significant hacks on platforms like Axie Infinity, Crypto.com, and FTX.
Disclaimer: By using this website, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy. CryptoSlate has no affiliation or relationship with any coin, business, project or event unless explicitly stated otherwise. CryptoSlate is only an informational website that provides news about coins, blockchain companies, blockchain products and blockchain events. None of the information you read on CryptoSlate should be taken as investment advice. Buying and trading cryptocurrencies should be considered a high-risk activity. Please do your own diligence before making any investment decisions. CryptoSlate is not accountable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss incurred, alleged or otherwise, in connection to the use or reliance of any content you read on the site.
© 2023 CryptoSlate. All rights reserved. Disclaimers | Terms | Privacy

Please add "[email protected]" to your email whitelist.
Stay connected via

Fecha de la Noticia:  Oct. 19, 2023 at 11:10 pm UTC
Link de la Noticia: https://cryptoslate.com/sec-drops-charges-against-ripple-executives/
